stop marketing on rented land
and do this instead hey i'm sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business
growth show and today we're going to be
sharing all about
well it's so important to invest in
marketing assets that you can fully
own as opposed to going all in on
rented channels all right so first off
what do we actually mean when we say
marketing on rented land so by rented
land
it means any platform that you do not
fully own yourself so this could be
social media sites
like linkedin or facebook or instagram
there's a bunch of other sites that
essentially
you do not own they're not your asset so
what i mean by that is they could be
great
so i know many people that are marketing
on linkedin
myself i'm one i do i post content on
linkedin every day
it generates us a lot of business being
in the b2b space as we're working with
other businesses it's a great platform
for us to connect with
business professionals to build our
network to
gain referrals to gain inbound inquiries
to become a thought leader through
posting content regularly in our
industry um in our case digital
marketing and
make some really valuable connections
and generate leads and likewise if
you're b2c facebook's pretty good and
the same for instagram there's a bunch
of other channels in
that social space so they're great in
that sense but
what they can do is they can change the
goal post whenever the heck they want
so linkedin could turn around tomorrow
and whilst linkedin has an awesome
organic reach they could change it
they're probably not gonna
but they could suddenly make it pay to
play so you have to pay a subscription
to use the platform
or they could significantly drop the
reach and make you pay to increase your
reach
they could change the way the messaging
tools work and likewise facebook or
instagram could completely
move their algorithm change their system
so this is within
not within your control and all these
things they could do
are not within your control meaning they
may be great as one channel to market on
but if you're solely relying on one of
these channels to generate all your
business
then you could find yourself one day
that they changed the algorithm change
one part of the system
and then a massive chunk of your
business is gone purely because you're
relying on that platform
now looking at assets that you can
actually own
so this could be something like your
website
it could be video content you create it
could be
blog articles an email list and podcast
or there's a bunch of others as well
looking at each in a bit more detail
so why would you why would you consider
having a website or updating a website
so one thing to consider
is when i mention website i don't mean
things like pay monthly builders
so there are tools like squarespace
shopify i mean a
site that you will own the code and the
files yourself so something like a
wordpress site or a bespoke build site
or such where you do actually fully own
the property and are not renting off
someone else
so a website is great because it can do
a bunch of things it can
showcase what you do your services it
can build trust through things like
social proof testimonials reviews
it can be a resource to prospects to
give them useful content
and information and answer their
questions plus it can generate leads
if you want to generate inquiries or
demo requests or it can generate sales
if you're selling stuff
but best of all it's something you can
continually add to so you can constantly
be adding pages of content
you can get the website ranked in the
search engines and it's not going at
going away anywhere because it's
something that you
have full ownership of you can
constantly be building up
in terms of seo in terms of marketing
and you can direct people to it right
you can say look this is my site
take a good look around and you can
generate business from it video content
uh much the same stuff you own whether
that's you're publishing it on your site
whether it's
publishing it to something like youtube
or other channels
it's typically something like i'm
recording now an evergreen piece of
content that can stay on the internet
and once it's there it's there
it can drive awareness and showcase what
you
do and bring in business a long term
over time
blog content again something you can
publish you can have it's part of your
website
but blog posts again once you publish
them they're pieces of content on a
certain topic they can rank on google
they can drive business they can build
awareness there's so many things you can
do with a blog post
email list is a great one so
what you can do with an email list is
sign up anyone who's an existing
customer
or new prospects and they can gain
valuable tips or insights or if you're
an e-commerce
discounts from you each week but this is
a this is a list that you own
so your list is not anyone else's this
is something that you can manage
that you can help people you can add
value you can share promotions
you can build it up over time and use it
as a lap tool to
generate sales and podcasts very similar
to video
again once you publish a podcast it's
there on the internet it's evergreen
it's staying there it's not going
anywhere
it can generate you business you can
link it back to your website you can use
it as part of content to your website
as we've talked about on previous
episodes you can chop this podcast
up into micro pieces of content you can
make
smaller video clips from it you can make
smaller sound bites from it
you can turn it into articles and blog
posts and much much more and you own
you own the episode once it's published
and it's all yours
so my recommendation um
might sound a bit counterintuitive from
what we've discussed at the start of the
episode but
to utilize both rented land and assets
you own
so from my own perspective we generate
quite a significant chunk of business
through linkedin
through creating content sharing content
in our space which is websites
seo and digital marketing so i do a lot
on linkedin
a lot through the podcast business
growth show um and we do a bit on
other social channels too but then we're
also we've got a website so we add
content to that regularly we do a lot of
seo
and we do a lot of paid ads we do the
podcast
and so we're doing a bunch of channels
on assets we own
and then we're doing a little bit on
assets that we do not that are on rented
lands we're making the best
of both worlds and what you can do is if
you're using assets
if you're if you're on rented land so if
you're on social
you can direct people um to the channels
that you own
so perhaps if you're doing posts say for
example linkedin and you've given a
valuable insight you could say look
if you want to learn more sign up to my
email list or
check out my website for more
information or check out this blog post
so
both can link together so you're using
the rented lan to then direct people to
to sign up to email list to check out
your website to
view a latest episode on your podcast
over time you're building up
the assets that you own you're building
up
let's say your customer base which in
turn is going to help you build up more
leads
and more revenue by directing people to
those assets you've got control
of and therefore giving you more
long-term growth
because you're not simply relying on one
channel or two channels that are rented
you're making a mix of rented and
fully owned assets so with that
i want to thank you to tuning in to
today's episode if you enjoyed it
please do hit subscribe got any
questions as always
do send us a message and with that we'll
catch you on the next episode